# q01sample

## 1.
We wish to compare the performance of two different machines M1 and M2. The following measurements have been made on these machines:

| Prog | Time on $$M1$$ | Time on $$M2$$ | IC on $$M1$$ | IC on $$M2$$ |  MIPS on $$M1$$ | CPI on $$M1$$ | CPI on $$M2$$ |
| :--- | :------------: | :------------: | :----------: | :----------: | :-------------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| P1 | 3 sec | 10 sec | $$3\times10^8$$ | $$4\times10^7$$ | ? | ? | ? |
| P1 | 8 sec | 5 sec | ? | ? | ? | 3.2 | 2 |

The clock rates of $$M1$$ and $$M2$$ are $$500\:\text{MHz}$$ and $$300\:\text{MHz}$$, respectively. Find the values of the variables with question marks in the above table. Show your derivation for each value.


## 2.
 Suppose the current value of the program counter plus 4 $$(\text{PC}+4)$$ is
 $$
 0000\:0000\:0000\:0000\:1111\:1100\:0000\:0000
 $$
 What is the branch address of the following branch instruction?
 ```
 beq $1, $2, 100
 ```


 ## 3.
 For the following instructions, give the instruction formats, the decimal values of each field in the table. One example is done for you. You have to fill in all the empty spaces.


 ## 4.
 In this question, we’ll examine quantitatively the pros and cons for adding an addressing mode to MIPS that allows arithmetic instructions to directly access memory, as is found on the 80x86. The primary benefit is that fewer instructions will be executed because we won’t have to first load a register. The primary disadvantage is that the cycle time will have to increase to account for the additional time to read memory. Consider adding a new instruction:
 ```
 addm $2, 100($3) 		# $2=$2+mem[$3+100]
 ```

Assume that the new instruction will cause the cycle time to increase by $$10%$$, the instruction frequencies of a benchmark program without the new instruction are as in the following table, and the new instruction affects only the clock speed, not the individual CPI. Also, let the instruction count of the program without the new instruction be $$x$$ and the original clock cycle time be $$t$$. What percentage of loads must be eliminated for the machine with the new instruction to have at least the same performance (execution time)? Show your detailed derivation

| Instruction type | % | Clock cycle |
| :--------------- | - | :---------: |
| ALU ops | 43$ | 1 |
| Loads | 21% | 2 |
| Stores | 12% | 2 |
| Branches | 24% | 2 |
> __HINT__: Assume the total number of load word instructions in the new machine is $$\alpha\cdot21\%$$, $$\left<\alpha<1\right>$$.


