# q01

## 1.
Suppose the current value of $$\text{PC}+4$$ is
$$
0110\:0000\:0000\:0000\:1111\:0000\:0000\:0000
$$
What is the branch address of the following branch instruction?
```
beq $3, $2, 200
```

What is the jump address of the jump instruction below?
```
jal 1040
```


## 2.
For the following instructions, give the instruction formats, the decimal values of each field in the table. One example is done for you in the first row. You have to fill in all the blanks.


## 3.
You are going to enhance a machine, and there are two possible improvements: either make multiply instructions run four times faster than before, or make the memory access instructions run two times faster than before. You repeatedly run a program that takes 100 seconds to execute. Of this time, 30% is used for multiplications, 40% for memory access instructions, and 30% for other instructions. What will the speedup be if you improve only memory access? What will the speedup be if both improvements are made?


## 4.
 In this question, we’ll examine quantitatively the pros and cons for adding an addressing mode to MIPS that allows arithmetic instructions to directly access memory, as is found on the 80x86. The primary benefit is that fewer instructions will be executed because we won’t have to first load a register. The primary disadvantage is that the cycle time will have to increase to account for the additional time to read memory. Consider adding a new instruction:
 ```
 addm $2, 100($3) 		# $2=$2+mem[$3+100]
 ```

Assume that the new instruction will cause the cycle time to increase by $$10%$$, the instruction frequencies of a benchmark program without the new instruction are as in the following table, and the new instruction affects only the clock speed, not the individual CPI. Also, let the instruction count of the program without the new instruction be $$x$$ and the original clock cycle time be $$t$$. What percentage of loads must be eliminated for the machine with the new instruction to have at least the same performance (execution time)? Show your detailed derivation

| Instruction type | % | Clock cycle |
| :--------------- | - | :---------: |
| ALU ops | 43% | 1 |
| Loads | 21% | 2 |
| Stores | 12% | 2 |
| Branches | 24% | 2 |
> __HINT__: Assume the total number of load word instructions in the new machine is $$r\cdot21\%\cdot{x}$$, $$\left<r<1\right>$$.
